add ingress nginx retire blog (#486)
kgateway-dev/kgateway.dev: content/blog/nginx-ingress-retirement-what-you-need-to-know.md

Because of these limitations, the Kubernetes community has been evolving the Ingress API since KubeCon 2019. The Gateway API reached **[GA](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2023/10/31/gateway-api-ga/)** in **October 2023**, making core APIs like `Gateway`, `GatewayClass`, and `HTTPRoute` stable.

## Advantages of Gateway API

What we love about the Gateway API:
- Extensibility: You can define custom traffic policies, rate limits, and more.
- Status field: Provides clear insights into whether a resource is accepted, programmed, and error-free.

Example with **kgateway** using the core Gateway and the extended TrafficPolicy resources:

```yaml
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Gateway
metadata:
  name: http
spec:
  gatewayClassName: kgateway
  listeners:
  - protocol: HTTP
    port: 80
    name: http
---
apiVersion: gateway.kgateway.dev/v1alpha1
kind: TrafficPolicy
metadata:
  name: transformation
spec:
  targetRefs:
  - group: gateway.networking.k8s.io
    kind: HTTPRoute
    name: http
  transformation:
    request:  
      add:
      - name: x-forwarded-uri
        value: 'https://{{ request_header(":authority") }}{{ request_header(":path") }}'
```

> After deployment, the status field for each resource lets you see whether resources are programmed correctly and if any errors exist. Here’s an example of the status field for the `http` Gateway resource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After deployment, the status field for each resource lets you see whether resources are programmed correctly and if any errors exist. Here’s an example of the status field for the TrafficPolicy resource:
```

Author: Thanks for catching this, I've updated the status example you provided to me :)

While multiple gateways may share the same data plane, the **control plane** is what sets them apart. The control plane translates Gateway API resources into Envoy configuration. For small setups, this is simple, but for large-scale deployments (e.g., 20,000 routes → 500,000+ lines of Envoy config), control plane **efficiency and scalability** are critical.

Check out our [blog](https://kgateway.dev/blog/design-kgateway-for-scalability/) on designing kgateway for scalability, which includes simple tests to evaluate control plane performance during route changes.

## Gateway API Benchmark

Performance matters. Regardless of whether your environment is bare-metal, virtualized, cloud, Kubernetes, or serverless, network speed and application responsiveness remain crucial.

One of the most thorough benchmarks comes from John Howard, who recently published [v2](https://github.com/howardjohn/gateway-api-bench/blob/main/README-v2.md) with reproducible test scripts. We recommend checking it out, running the tests in your environment, and engaging with his findings.

> {{< reuse-image src="blog/nginx-ingress-retirement-1.png" width="750px" caption="Resource Consumption During Route Scale Test from John’s Benchmark" >}}

Reviewer: vs. removing it 
<img width="1241" height="776" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7169d949-c41c-4753-9264-b653f68e6d44" />
